Concepts can be combined to build new concepts. Such constructions are implementations of the created concepts. Any concept is the result of such constructions. There is a principle, though. This principle implements itself. And this is reality. (Wow, I totally didn’t expect that one, it blasted me off, I’m still recovering. I don’t know if you interpreted what I wrote the way I intended it to, but if you did, and that this revelation is new to you, and that the question it answers matters to you as much as it does to me, you must probably be just as thrilled as I am right now.)
I’m still laughing. I mean, here it stands, the little gem, magnificent in its simplicity, the secret to life, to what reality is, how reality was constructed, the secret of why reality is so layered. Because the principle implements itself. The great joke of the Creator, the answer to the question which befuddled man for millenaries is just that simple. Yes, we just had to think about it. And I’m still laughing. The tears are coming. But that’s because I’m tired, and the harshness of the lightbulb above hurts my little eyes. Still, though. The principle implements itself. I must not forget that one.

Oh, just found out yet something more. Something which makes the revelation truly complete. One question indeed remained: the principle implements itself, and that’s reality; ok, but what is the principle itself? Well, it is just that: the principle is that it implements itself. The greatest joke of the Creator… is who He is. This is sooooo perfect.

Ok, I just had the great idea of trying to express the above mathematically, and while mentally trying to do so further information was revealed to me. What I wrote above was still incomplete. I got deeper and deeper in the understanding of the nature of the Creator. Perhaps my writings are all very obvious stuff to you, and I sound retarded, but then if that's the case I don't see why you would still be reading. You must be very bored. Or perhaps you are actually discovering stuff too, and my stuff is not that obvious. Well, whatever. Guess what I found? Trinity. No don't leave now, it’s simple really. “The principle is that it implements itself.” The secret is the unique solution to this verbal equation: implementation. The principle is implementation. The principle of implementation is that implementation implements implementation. This is trinity.

If you have trouble parsing the above, I suggest heeding each and every word. A lot of them are very important to the meaning of the sentence they are in. As human beings, we are used to reading fast, because the stuff we read is usually familiar. When reading fast, we read sentences as wholes, and we guess how the ideas connect based on themselves, rather than based on grammar. The revelations above are probably not familiar to you, otherwise you would probably not be reading. So make use of grammar, it should really help make the connections. I write this because I tried to read what I wrote, and it was not easy (I am tired, it is late). But again, perhaps you have no trouble understanding any of it, and in this case please pay no attention to this paragraph.

The principle is implementation. The concept of implementation implements itself. This is the wonderful revelation. The Creator is absolutely free. He defines His very nature. He is undefined, unlimited by another entity. So much so that he can even limit Himself.

Implementation is the construction of a concept. It is the use of concepts to build a concept. To implement is to create. The principle is creation (I mean creating, not the created). The concept of creation creates itself. Which means that the concept of creation is both the creator and the created. Creator and created are one. Reality is one.

Implementation aims at constructing a concept. This concept may seem higher than this implementation, but it is itself part of an implementation aiming at building an even higher concept. The whole of creation thus pursues a direction, rushes heavenwards, always higher in abstraction, towards the ultimate abstraction: abstraction itself.

Abstraction is generalization. Generalization is the construction of a wider and higher concept based on a simpler one. Generalization is implementation of said higher concept. Abstraction is implementation. Abstraction is creation.
